optimise images (#206)
andycroll/andycroll.com: _posts/2024/2024-05-27-compress-your-images-using-github-actions.md

---
title: "Compress Your Images"

> description: "Using a set and forget Github Action"

Reviewer: *set-and-forget (?)

Reviewer: *GitHub

Author: ```suggestion
description: "Using a set-and-forget GitHub Action"
```

layout: article
category: ruby
date: 2024-05-27 01:00
image:
  base: "2024/compress-your-images-using-github-actions"
  alt: "Sheep squeezed into a small pen"
  credit: "Davide Ragusa"
  source: "https://unsplash.com/photos/herd-of-sheep-in-grayscale-photo-cDwZ40Lj9eo"
---

> Images can form a large proportion of the total download size of pages in your Rails application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Images typically form a large proportion of the total download size of pages in your Rails application.
```

> Given that many image formats (both lossy and lossless) can be compressed further without visual regressions it makes sense to optimize them as much as you can without losing any visual fidelity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given that many image formats (both lossy and lossless) can be compressed further without any visual regression, it makes sense to optimize them up until that point.
```

## Create a Github Action

> Add the following `.github/workflows/compress-images.yml` to your repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the following to your repository:
```

```yml

> name: Optimize Images

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# .github/workflows/compress-images.yml 

name: Optimize Images
```

on:
  pull_request:
    paths:
      - "**.jpg"
      - "**.jpeg"
      - "**.png"
      - "**.webp"

jobs:
  build:
    if: github.event.pull_request.head.repo.full_name == github.repository

    name: calibreapp/image-actions
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    steps:
      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v3

      - name: Compress Images
        uses: calibreapp/image-actions@main
        with:
          githubToken: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
```

## Why?

> Smaller images mean faster downloads for your users. This is a lovely "set and forget" tool from the lovely folks at [Calibre](https://calibreapp.com). You might be surprised how much bandwidth you save.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Smaller images mean faster downloads for your users. This is a great set-and-forget tool from the lovely folks at [Calibre](https://calibreapp.com). You might be surprised how much bandwidth you save.
```

> Smaller images mean faster downloads for your users. This is a lovely "set and forget" tool from the lovely folks at [Calibre](https://calibreapp.com). You might be surprised how much bandwisdth you save.

Author: ```suggestion
Smaller images mean faster downloads for your users. This is a lovely "set and forget" tool from the lovely folks at [Calibre](https://calibreapp.com). You might be surprised how much bandwidth you save.
```

> This works for any repository, not just Rails applications. I use it on the [jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com) site you’re currently reading.

Reviewer: *Jekyll

Author: ```suggestion
This works for any repository, not just Rails applications. I use it on the [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com) site you’re currently reading.
```

## Why not?

> Maybe you dislike free performance improvements for you users? I kid. A bit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Maybe you dislike free performance improvements for you users?

I kid.

A bit.
```

> There’s still some human intervention needed to to make a good initial format decision for your imagery. You‘ll want to use the correct kind of format for the correct kind of image e.g. JPGs or WEBP for photography will generally compress to a smaller size for the same visual result than PNG.

Reviewer: The 'e.g.' needs a little reworking so that what you're saying about JPGs & WEBPs vs PNGs is clearer.

Author: ```suggestion
There’s still some human intervention needed to to make a good initial format decision for your imagery. You‘ll want to use the correct file type for the image e.g. JPGs or WEBP offer better compression for photographic images.
```

The best solution to make your image downloads less of a burden for your users is to resize—reducing the dimensions of the files—and serve multiple sizes using [responsive imagery](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Multimedia_and_embedding/Responsive_images) with a `<picture>` element, a `srcset` attribute on an `<img>` tag, or a combination of both.

> Note that this is only for image assets included in your application or site. Any user-uploaded images will need resizing and compressing using an alternative technique. I’ve had great experience with [imgproxy](https://imgproxy.net) at CoverageBook.

Reviewer: *a great experience...

Author: ```suggestion
Note that this is only for image assets included in your application or site. Any user-uploaded images will need resizing and compressing using an alternative technique. I’ve had a great experience with [imgproxy](https://imgproxy.net) at CoverageBook.
```

> Additionally this is only for image assets included in your application or site. Any user uploaded images will need resizing and compressing using an alternative technique. I’ve had great experience with [imgproxy](https://imgproxy.net) at CoverageBook.

Author: ```suggestion
Note that this is only for image assets included in your application or site. Any user-uploaded images will need resizing and compressing using an alternative technique. I’ve had great experience with [imgproxy](https://imgproxy.net) at CoverageBook.
```

Given that many image formats (both lossy and lossless) can be compressed further without any visual regression, it makes sense to optimize them up until that point.

## Create a Github Action

Add the following to your repository:

```yml
# .github/workflows/compress-images.yml 

name: Optimize Images

on:
  pull_request:
    paths:
      - "**.jpg"
      - "**.jpeg"
      - "**.png"
      - "**.webp"

jobs:
  build:
    if: github.event.pull_request.head.repo.full_name == github.repository

    name: calibreapp/image-actions
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    steps:
      - name: Checkout
        uses: actions/checkout@v3

      - name: Compress Images
        uses: calibreapp/image-actions@main
        with:
          githubToken: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
```

## Why?

Smaller images mean faster downloads for your users. This is a great set-and-forget tool from the lovely folks at [Calibre](https://calibreapp.com). You might be surprised how much bandwidth you save.

This works for any repository, not just Rails applications. I use it on the [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com) site you’re currently reading.

## Why not?

> Maybe you dislike free performance improvements for you users?

Reviewer: *your

Author: ```suggestion
Maybe you dislike free performance improvements for your users?
```

I kid.

A bit.

> There’s still some human intervention needed to to make a good initial format decision for your imagery. You‘ll want to use the correct file type for the image e.g. JPGs or WEBP offer better compression for photographic images.

Reviewer: *to

Author: ```suggestion
There’s still some human intervention needed to make a good initial format decision for your imagery. You‘ll want to use the correct file type for the image e.g. JPGs or WEBP offer better compression for photographic images.
```
